To create the hair I think I'll bring in a new reference image over here.
Let's take a look at this one again.
And I think the hair we can see a little bit of the hair on the side of the head.
And this isn't going to be exactly like this.
I don't want to do it exactly but that'll just give me a general idea.
Now even though it is kind of a rounded object I'm going to begin the hair with a cube.
So let's just press shift a And let's bring in a cube right here and then I'll go to that front view
and wire frame and let's bring it up and kind of put it in place right up here I'm going to scale it
down with the esky and get it.
I don't know generally the right size about like this maybe.
And then what let's do is add a subdivision surface modifier to begin to kind of curve it.
So let's come over here to the modifiers panel right here and let's add a subdivision surface modifier
and this will add resolution to the cube which will begin to curve the corners.
So we'll click here and you can see what's beginning to happen there.
Let's go ahead and scale this back out now so we can make it about the size of the character's hair
there.
Now let's go to the salad view and this is what we have so far.
So let's maybe increase the viewer just a bit right here and there we go.
So now we're beginning to get the amount of geometry we need to delete and mold this for the hair.
Let me go back to the front view again and how we doing on the size here.
Not too bad.
We could maybe put it right about here let's say now if we take a look at this in edit mode we can see
that we still have just the original cube everything that's been subdivided in here is just a preview.
We need to apply this to be able to work with this geometry.
So I'll go ahead and tab into object mode again and then come over and hit apply.
Now if we tap back into edit mode you can see the geometry has been baked into the cube.
All right.
So now we need to begin removing some of these bases.
Let's go to the side view and let's go to wireframe and then let's hit the three key to go to face mode.
So what should we get rid of here.
Let me press Alt A D select.
I've changed my selection tool from the select box to select lasso so that we can just kind of click
and drag a lasso around faces like this to delete them.
So I think we should probably delete these.
Let's go ahead and delete those.
We probably should delete these in here.
Let me do that again right in here like that and we could probably delete these right here as well x
and faces.
All right.
Let's see how that works.
Let's go back to the front view and let's go to solid.
So this is what we have so far.
We could begin to maybe go to vertex mode and maybe grab some of these points and begin kind of pulling
them up.
You can see how we've got kind of a kind of a side burn here.
You could maybe move that up.
We could maybe move this in so we could begin to just kind of generally re shape this until we get it
kind of the way we want it.
I mean turn on the move tool here and kind of pull this out like this I can press control three to go
to the left or the graphic view and do the same over here I could hit G and move these around a bit
like this maybe bring this one down.
So I'm like that and this one backs.
So just generally getting the proper shape.
Let's take a look at this here.
So we really need to bring these up now.
I think I may go back to solid and select this one right here and we can also see through the mesh without
hitting the Z key and going to wireframe we can just press all Z and then we get kind of a transparency
here.
So that can help us switch back and forth.
Let's say I grab these and make it all easy and select this again like this and this could kind of move
these up a bit and maybe move these in they're just trying to mold it just a little bit better because
what we're gonna do next is use that subdivision surfaces modifier again to get it a little bit more
smooth more rounded with a little bit more resolution.
Let me bring these in.
I mean like this.
Let's bring that up some
okay.
So I'm just still kind of shaping it maybe I should grab these and bring these up like this all right.
So we've got a basic shape.
Now it's not looking too bad.
There's still some points in here that we could pull around a bit.
I'm just going to kind of tumble around and see where I need to pull things in or out.
Yeah I think I had I think I could maybe pull this in some like this when we go.
All right.
So I think we're doing pretty well here is just the basic shape of it.
Now let's go back to that front view and make sure it's about the right size.
Yeah I think that's pretty good.
All right.
So now what let's do before we add that next subdivision modifier let's add some thickness to this and
see how it's going to look.
Let me tab back into object mode.
Let's hit the in key to go to our sidebar and let's go ahead and apply the scale press control a and
apply this scale.
Now let's come over here to the modifiers panel add modifier and this time we'll choose solidify.
Now if we click and drag we can see we're gonna get a bit of thickness there like that.
All right.
We could even choose even thickness again that might help a little bit.
So now we've got it.
So we have a bit of thickness there while we have this modifier here.
Let's go ahead and add another one we can stack them in this modifier stack and we oftentimes get different
results depending on where they are in the stack.
So let me show you if I turn this down a bit and then I'll go ahead and add another modifier.
Let's add a subdivision surface modifier now.
Now you can see it's beginning to curve and be a little bit more rounded the way we have in the picture
here.
So let's see if we get any difference if we change the order we can choose this arrow here to bring
this subdivisions surface up to the top of the stack.
If we click that you can see what happens.
We're subdividing it first on the top and then we're adding a solidify modifier to it without a subdivision
surface.
So we're just getting a flat edge here.
But if we bring this solidify on the top I'm going to twirl these in here if we bring this solidify
up to the top.
We're using this solidify first and then we're subdividing all of it including the solidify part here
on the edges.
So that looks pretty good right there.
We could also come over here to object and shade smooth and that's looking pretty good there.
Yes.
So I think that's going to be pretty good.
I think what we need to do now is just apply the modifiers so in what order should we apply them.
Well let's take a look.
I'm going to come up to the top of the stack here and click apply for the solidify and then I'm going
to click the subdivisions apply.
Now if we tap into edit mode there is the geometry of our hair.
So notice what I did.
I applied the modifiers from the top of the stack down and that does make a difference as well.
All right.
So now we have the basic form of the hair in the next video.
Let's work on shaping it a little more.
And also we'll delete some of the faces on the inside that we're not going to be seeing.